The next morning, when Harry wakes up, he tells himself that it was all a dream about a giant arriving and revealing that he was a wizard. He hears a tapping and thinks it's his aunt. He wishes the dream were real, opens his eyes, and finds himself in the desolate room with Hagrid.
An owl arrives carrying a newspaper; it drops off the newspaper and starts pecking at Hagrid's coat.
Hagrid tells Harry the owl needs to be paid and to give it money from the coat's pockets. Harry finds wizarding money and pays in Knuts.
Hagrid says that they have to get going to buy Harry's school supplies, and Harry gets worried about not having enough money for school, especially since Mr. Dursley said he wouldn't finance it.
Hagrid reassures Harry, telling him that his parents left him money. It's all kept safe in the Gringotts bank. This is a goblin bank, and Hagrid says Gringotts and Hogwarts are the most secure places in the world. Dumbledore's given Hagrid a task to accomplish there.
Harry and Hagrid leave the hut, and get in the dilapidated boat the Dursleys rowed over in. Hagrid admits he flew there, but isn't really supposed to be doing magic. They agree to keep it a secret if Hagrid helps the boat go a little faster.
On their boat ride, Hagrid tells Harry that the bank is protected by spells and dragons. Hagrid also explains about the Ministry of Magic – its primary purpose is to keep wizardry and magic secret.
After they make it to shore, they get a lot of weird looks as they go to catch a train to London. Hagrid confesses he'd like a dragon of his own.
On the train, Harry reviews the list of supplies. He'll need a uniform, including robes, a hat, and cloak, and several textbooks. He'll also need a wand and some other magic stuff.
When they get to London, Harry's still a little confused about how they'll be able to buy these supplies, but Hagrid knows where to go. Harry's worried until they get to a pub called the Leaky Cauldron. He realizes that it doesn't seem as though anyone else can see it at all.
Inside when Harry and Hagrid walk in, everyone stops and stares. They welcome Harry and every single person wants to shake his hand.
One of the people Harry meets is Professor Quirrell. Quirrell has a terrible stutter and seems super frightened. He's the new Defense Against the Dark Arts professor.
Finally, Hagrid extracts them, saying they need to go shopping, and they go into the alley behind the Leaky Cauldron. He explains to Harry Potter that Quirrell is super smart, but hasn't been the same since he did fieldwork and had some bad experiences.