Buttons
Most of the buttons you use with iPhone are virtual ones on the touchscreen. A few physical
buttons control basic functions, such as turning iPhone on or adjusting the volume.
Sleep/Wake button
When you’re not using iPhone, press the Sleep/Wake button to lock iPhone. Locking iPhone puts
the display to sleep, saves the battery, and prevents anything from happening if you touch the
screen. You can still get phone calls, FaceTime calls, text messages, alarms, and notifications. You
can also listen to music and adjust the volume.
 On iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, the Sleep/Wake button is on the right side:
Sleep/Wake
button
Sleep/Wake
button
On earlier iPhone models, the Sleep/Wake button is on the top edge:
Sleep/Wake
button
Sleep/Wake
button
iPhone locks automatically if you don’t touch the screen for a minute or so. To adjust the timing,
go to Settings > General > Auto-Lock.
Turn iPhone on. Press and hold the Sleep/Wake button until the Apple logo appears.
Unlock iPhone. Press either the Sleep/Wake or Home button, then drag the slider.
Turn iPhone off. Press and hold the Sleep/Wake button until the slider appears, then drag
the slider.
For additional security, you can require a passcode to unlock iPhone. Go to Settings > Touch ID
& Passcode (iPhone models with Touch ID) or Settings > Passcode (other models). See Use a
passcode with data protection on page 44.
Home button
The Home button takes you to the Home screen and provides other convenient shortcuts. On
the Home screen, tap any app to open it.
See apps you’ve opened. Double-click the Home button when iPhone is unlocked. See Start at
home on page 23.
Use Siri or Voice Control. Press and hold the Home button. See Chapter 4, Siri, on page 48 and
Voice Control on page 33.
Chapter 1 iPhone at a glance 13
On iPhone models with Touch ID, you can use the sensor in the Home button to read your
fingerprint, instead of using your passcode or Apple ID password to unlock iPhone or make
purchases in the iTunes Store, App Store, and iBooks Store. See Touch ID on page 44. If you have
iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus, you can also use the Touch ID sensor for authentication when using
Apple Pay to make a purchase in a store or from within an app. See Touch ID on page 44 and
Apple Pay on page 132.
You can also use the Home button to turn accessibility features on or off. See Accessibility
Shortcut on page 151.
Volume controls
When you’re on the phone or listening to songs, movies, or other media, the buttons on the side
of iPhone adjust the audio volume. Otherwise, the buttons control the volume for the ringer,
alerts, and other sound effects.
WARNING:  For important information about avoiding hearing loss, see Important safety
information on page 183.
Volume
up
Volume
up
Volume
down
Volume
down
Lock the ringer and alert volumes. Go to Settings > Sounds, then turn off Change with Buttons.
To limit the volume for music and videos, go to Settings > Music > Volume Limit.
Note:  In some European Union (EU) countries, iPhone may warn that you’re setting the volume
above the EU recommended level for hearing safety. To increase the volume beyond this level,
you may need to briefly release the volume control. To limit the maximum headset volume
to this level, go to Settings > Music > Volume Limit, then turn on EU Volume Limit. To prevent
changes to the volume limit, go to Settings > General > Restrictions.
Use Control Center to adjust the volume. When iPhone is locked or when you’re using another
app, swipe up from the bottom edge of the screen to open Control Center.
You can also use either volume button to take a picture or record a video. See Take photos and
videos on page 94.
Ring/Silent switch
Flip the Ring/Silent switch to put iPhone in ring mode or silent mode .
Ring
Silent
In ring mode, iPhone plays all sounds. In silent mode, iPhone doesn’t ring or play alerts and other
sound effects (but iPhone may still vibrate).
Chapter 1 iPhone at a glance 14
Important:  Clock alarms, audio apps such as Music, and many games play sounds through the
built-in speaker, even when iPhone is in silent mode. In some areas, the sound effects for Camera
and Voice Memos are played, even if the Ring/Silent switch is set to silent.
For information about changing sound and vibration settings, see Sounds and silence on
page 36.
Use Do Not Disturb. You can also silence calls, alerts, and notifications using Do Not Disturb.
Swipe up from the bottom edge of the screen to open Control Center, then tap